您在这里：：Digilent 参考 FPGA 开发板 耐西斯 A7 Nexys A7 参考手册
目录
Nexys A7 参考手册
Nexys A7-50T 变体现已在我们的商店中退役。Nexys A7-100T 不受影响，将继续生产。

Nexys A7 板是一个完整的即用型数字电路开发平台，基于 Xilinx® 最新的 Artix-7™ 现场可编程门阵列 （FPGA）。凭借其大型、大容量 FPGA、丰富的外部存储器以及 USB、以太网和其他端口的集合，Nexys A7 可以托管从入门级组合电路到强大的嵌入式处理器的各种设计。几个内置外设，包括加速度计、温度传感器、MEMS 数字麦克风、扬声器放大器和多个 I/O 设备，使 Nexys A7 无需任何其他组件即可用于各种设计。


   
下载
下载此参考手册： PDF
特征
Artix-7 FPGA
15,850 个可编程逻辑切片，每个切片有 6 个 8 输入 LUT 和 8 个触发器（*150,<> 个切片）
4,860 Kb 的快速块 RAM （*2,700 Kb）
6 个 clock management tile，每个tile都有锁相环 （PLL）
240 个 DSP 切片 （*120 DSP）
内部时钟速度超过 450 MHz
双通道、1 MSPS 内部模数转换器 （XADC）
记忆
128MiB DDR2 内存
串行闪存
microSD 卡插槽
权力
由 USB 或任何 4.5V-5.5V 外部电源供电
USB 和以太网
10/100 以太网 PHY
USB-JTAG 编程电路
USB-UART 桥接器
用于鼠标、键盘和记忆棒的 USB HID 主机
简单的用户输入 / 输出
16 开关
16 个 LED
两个 RGB LED
两个 4 位 7 段显示器
音频和视频
12 位 VGA 输出
PWM 音频输出
PDM 麦克风
其他传感器
3 轴加速度计
温度传感器
扩展连接器
用于 XADC 信号的 Pmod 连接器
32 个 Pmod 连接器，总共提供 <> 个 FPGA I/O
Nexys A7-100T 与 Xilinx 的 Vivado® Design Suite 以及 ISE® 工具集兼容，其中包括 ChipScope™ 和 EDK。Xilinx ISE 已停产，取而代之的是 Vivado® Design Suite。

Nexys A7-50T 变体仅与 Vivado® Design Suite 兼容。

Xilinx 提供这些工具集的免费 WebPACK™ 版本，因此无需额外成本即可实现设计。

Digilent Adept Utility 不支持 Nexys A7。



图 1.Nexys A7 功能标注

标注	组件描述	标注	组件描述
1	电源插孔	16	用于（可选）外部电缆的 JTAG 端口
2	电源开关	17	三色 （RGB） LED
3	USB 主机连接器	18	滑动开关 （16）
4	PIC24 编程端口（工厂用）	19	发光二极管 （16）
5	以太网连接器	20	电源测试点
6	FPGA 编程完成 LED	21	八位 7 段显示
7	VGA 连接器	22	麦克风
8	音频连接器	23	外部配置跳线 （SD / USB）
9	编程模式跳线	24	MicroSD 卡插槽
10	模拟信号 Pmod 端口 （XADC）	25	共享 UART/ JTAG USB 端口
11	FPGA 配置重置按钮	26	电源选择跳线和电池接头
12	CPU 重置按钮（适用于软核）	27	电源正常 LED
13	五个按钮	28	Xilinx Artix-7 FPGA
14	Pmod 端口	29	DDR2 内存
15	温度传感器		
购买选项
Nexys A7 可以在加载 XC7A100T 或 XC7A50T FPGA 的情况下购买。这两种 Nexys A7 产品变体分别称为 Nexys A7-100T 和 Nexys A7-50T。当 Digilent 文档描述这两种变体的通用功能时，它们被统称为“Nexys A7”。当描述仅对特定变体通用的事物时，该变体将通过其名称显式调用。

Nexys A7-100T 和 Nexys A7-50T 之间的唯一区别是 Artix-7 部件的尺寸。Artix-7 FPGA 具有相同的功能，但 XC7100T 的内部 FPGA 大约是 XC2T 的 750 倍。两种变体之间的差异总结如下：

产品变型	耐西斯 A7-100T	Nexys A7-50T（已停产）
FPGA 零件编号	XC7A100T-1CSG324C	XC7A50T-1CSG324I
查找表 （LUT）	63,400	32,600
人字拖	126,800	65,200
块 RAM	4,860 千字节	2,700 千字节
DSP 切片	240	120
时钟管理磁贴	6	5
Board 修订
Nexys A7 是 Nexys 4 DDR 板的更名，它是 Nexys 4 板的增量更新。

从 Nexys 4 DDR 迁移
Nexys A7 和 Nexys 4 DDR 之间的唯一区别是增加了 Nexys A7 的 Nexys A50-7T 变体，它具有更小的门阵列。Nexys A7-100T 变体在功能上与 Nexys 4 DDR 相同。

Nexys A7 的用户可能会发现为 Nexys 4 DDR 制作的资源很有帮助，可以在 Nexys 4 DDR 的资源中心找到。

从 Nexys 4 迁移
从 Nexys 4 到 Nexys 4 DDR 的主要改进是将 16 MiB 蜂窝 RAM 替换为 128 MiB DDR2 SDRAM 内存。 此外，为了适应新内存， FPGA bank 的 pin-out 也发生了变化。

音频输出 （AUD_PWM） 需要开漏驱动，而不是 Nexys 4 上的推挽驱动。

功能描述
1 电源
Nexys A7 板可以从 Digilent USB-JTAG 端口 （J6） 或外部电源接收电源。跳线 JP3（靠近电源插孔）确定使用哪个源。

所有 Nexys A7 电源都可以通过单个逻辑电平电源开关 （SW16） 打开和关闭。电源正常 LED （LD22） 由 ADP2118 电源的 “power good” 输出驱动，指示电源已打开并正常运行。Nexys A7 电源电路的概述如图 1.1 所示。

图 1.1 Nexys A7 电源电路

USB 端口可以为绝大多数设计提供足够的电源。为了从 USB 端口为板供电，请将跳线 JP3 设置为“USB”。我们的开箱即用演示从 400V 输入轨汲取 ~5mA 的电流。一些要求苛刻的应用，包括驱动多个外设板的应用，可能需要比 USB 端口所能提供的更多的功率。此外，某些应用程序可能需要在不连接到 PC 的 USB 端口的情况下运行。在这些情况下，可以使用外部电源或电池组。

通过插入电源插孔 （J13） 并将跳线 JP3 设置为“WALL”，可以使用外部电源。电源必须使用同轴、中心正极 2.1mm 内径插头，并提供 4.5VDC 至 5.5VDC 和至少 1A 的电流（即至少 5W 的功率）。许多合适的备件可以从 Digilent 购买，也可以通过 Digi-Key 或其他目录供应商购买。

通过将电池的正极连接到 JP3 的中心引脚，将负极端子连接到 JP12 正下方标有 J3 的引脚，可以使用外部电池组。由于 Nexys A7 上的主稳压器无法容纳超过 5.5VDC 的输入电压，因此外部电池组必须限制为 5.5VDC。电池组的最小电压取决于应用：如果使用 USB Host 功能 （J5），至少需要提供 4.6V。在其他情况下，最小电压为 3.6V。

Analog Devices 的稳压器电路从主电源输入产生所需的 3.3V、1.8V 和 1.0V 电源。表 1.1 提供了其他信息。典型电流在很大程度上取决于 FPGA 配置，所提供的值是中等尺寸/速度设计的典型值。

表 1.1 Nexys A7 电源。
供应	电路	装置	电流 （最大/典型值）
3.3V	FPGA I/O、USB 端口、时钟、RAM I/O、以太网、SD 插槽、传感器、闪存	IC17：ADP2118	3A/0.1 至 1.5A
1.0V	FPGA 内核	IC22：ADP2118	3A/ 0.2 至 1.3A
1.8V	DDR2、FPGA 辅助和 RAM	IC23：ADP2118	0.8 安培/ 0.5 安培
1.1 保护
Nexys A7 在输入电源轨上具有过流和过压保护功能。一个 3.5A 保险丝 （R287） 和一个 5V 齐纳二极管 （D16） 为其他板载集成电路提供不可复位的保护，如图 1.1 所示。在本文档中概述的规格之外应用电源不在保修范围内。如果发生这种情况，其中一个或两个都可能受到永久性损坏。损坏的部件用户不可更换。

2 FPGA 配置
上电后，必须先对 Artix-7 FPGA 进行配置（或编程），然后才能执行任何功能。您可以通过以下四种方式之一配置 FPGA：

PC 可以在通电时使用 Digilent USB-JTAG 电路（端口 J6，标记为“PROG”）对 FPGA 进行编程。
存储在非易失性串行 （SPI） 闪存器件中的文件可以使用 SPI 端口传输到 FPGA。
编程文件可以从 micro SD 卡传输到 FPGA。
编程文件可以从连接到 USB HID 端口的 USB 记忆棒传输。
图 2.1 Nexys A7 配置选项

图 2.1 显示了可用于配置 FPGA的不同选项。板载“模式”跳线 （JP1） 和媒体选择跳线 （JP2） 在编程模式之间进行选择。

FPGA configuration data 存储在名为 bitstreams 的文件中，这些文件扩展名为 .bit 。Xilinx 的 ISE 或 Vivado 软件可以从 VHDL、Verilog® 或基于原理图的源文件创建比特流（在 ISE 工具集中，EDK 用于基于 MicroBlaze™ 嵌入式处理器的设计）。

Bitstreams 存储在 FPGA中基于 SRAM 的 memory cells 中。此数据定义了 FPGA的 logic functions 和 circuit connections，并且在通过移除 board 电源、按下连接到 PROG input的 reset 按钮或使用 JTAG 端口编写新配置文件将其擦除之前，它一直有效。

Artix-7 100T 比特流通常为 30,606,304 位，可能需要很长时间才能传输。通过在编程之前压缩 bitstream ，然后允许 FPGA 在 configuration 期间解压缩 bitstream 本身，可以减少对 Nexys A7 进行编程所需的时间。根据设计复杂性，可以实现 10 倍的压缩比。可以在 Xilinx 工具（ISE 或 Vivado）中启用比特流压缩，以便在生成过程中进行。有关如何执行此操作的说明，请查阅所用工具集的 Xilinx 文档。 编程成功后，FPGA 将使 “DONE” LED 亮起。随时按下 “PROG” 按钮将重置 FPGA中的配置内存。重置后， FPGA 将立即尝试从 programming mode jumpers 选择的任何方法重新编程自身。

以下部分提供了有关使用可用的不同方法对 Nexys A7 进行编程的更多详细信息。

2.1 JTAG 配置
Xilinx 工具通常使用测试访问端口和边界扫描架构（通常称为 JTAG）与 FPGA 通信。在 JTAG 编程期间，使用板载 Digilent USB-JTAG 电路（端口 J6）或连接到端口 J2 的外部 JTAG 编程器（如 Digilent JTAG-HS10）将 .bit 文件从 PC 传输到 FPGA。在 Nexys A7 通电后，无论模式跳线 （JP1） 设置如何，您都可以随时执行 JTAG 编程。如果 FPGA 已经配置，则现有配置将被通过 JTAG 传输的 bitstream 覆盖。将 mode jumper 设置为 JTAG 设置（如图 2.1 所示）有助于防止 FPGA 从 JTAG 编程发生之前从任何其他 bitstream 源进行配置。

使用板载 USB-JTAG 电路用未压缩的比特流对 Nexys A7 进行编程通常需要大约 7 秒钟。JTAG 编程可以使用 Vivado 中的硬件服务器或 ISE 附带的 iMPACT 工具以及 Vivado 的 Lab Tools 版本来完成。通过 Nexys A<> 资源中心提供的演示项目提供了有关如何对电路板进行编程的深入教程。

2.2 Quad-SPI 配置
由于 Nexys A7 上的 FPGA 是易失性的，因此它依靠 Quad-SPI 闪存来存储电源周期之间的配置。这种配置模式称为 Master SPI。空白 FPGA 担任 master 的角色，并在上电时从 flash 器件中读取配置文件。为此，需要首先将配置文件下载到 flash。当对非易失性 flash 器件进行编程时，bitstream 文件通过两步过程传输到 flash。首先，使用可以对闪存器件进行编程的电路对 FPGA 进行编程，然后通过 FPGA 电路将数据传输到闪存器件（Xilinx 工具对用户隐藏了这种复杂性）。这称为间接编程。flash device 编程后，它可以在随后的 power-on 或 reset 事件中自动配置 FPGA，由 mode jumper 设置确定（参见图 2.1）。存储在闪存器件中的编程文件将一直保留，直到它们被覆盖，无论电源重启事件如何。

对闪存进行编程可能需要长达 7 到 1 分钟，这主要是由于内存技术固有的漫长擦除过程。但是，一旦写入， FPGA configuration 就可以非常快 — 不到一秒。比特流压缩、SPI 总线宽度和配置速率是 Xilinx 工具控制的因素，会影响配置速度。Nexys A2 支持 x4、x50 和 x<> 总线宽度和高达 <> MHz 的数据速率，用于 Quad-SPI 编程。

Quad-SPI 编程可以使用 ISE 附带的 iMPACT 工具或 Vivado 的 Lab Tools 版本来完成。

2.3 USB 主机和 Micro SD 编程
您可以通过执行以下操作，从连接到 USB 主机端口 （J5） 的笔式驱动器或插入 J1 的 microSD 卡对 FPGA 进行编程：

使用 FAT32 文件系统格式化存储设备（笔式驱动器或 microSD 卡）。
将单个 .bit 配置文件放在存储设备的根目录中。
将存储设备连接到 Nexys A7。
将 Nexys A1 上的 JP7 编程模式跳线设置为“USB/SD”。
使用 JP2 选择所需的存储设备。
按下 PROG 按钮或重启 Nexys A7。
FPGA 将在所选存储设备上使用 .bit 文件自动配置。任何不是为合适的 Artix-7 设备构建的 .bit 文件都将被 FPGA 拒绝。

当 FPGA 尚未编程时，Auxiliary Function Status 或 “BUSY” LED 提供有关配置过程状态的视觉反馈：

当稳定点亮时，辅助微控制器正在启动或当前读取 configuration medium（microSD 或 pen drive）并将 bitstream 下载到 FPGA。
慢脉冲意味着微控制器正在等待插入 configuration medium。
如果在配置过程中出现错误，LED 将快速闪烁。
When the FPGA has been successfully configured, the behavior of the LED is application-specific. For example, if a USB keyboard is plugged in, a rapid blink will signal the receipt of an HID input report from the keyboard.

3 Memory
The Nexys A7 board contains two external memories: a 1Gib (128MiB) DDR2 SDRAM and a 128Mib (16MiB) non-volatile serial Flash device. The DDR2 modules are integrated on-board and connect to the FPGA using the industry standard interface. The serial Flash is on a dedicated quad-mode (x4) SPI bus. The connections and pin assignments between the FPGA and external memories are shown below.

3.1 DDR2
The Nexys A7 includes one Micron MT47H64M16HR-25:H DDR2 memory component, creating a single rank, 16-bit wide interface. It is routed to a 1.8V-powered HR (High Range) FPGA bank with 50 ohm controlled single-ended trace impedance. 50 ohm internal terminations in the FPGA are used to match the trace characteristics. Similarly, on the memory side, on-die terminations (ODT) are used for impedance matching.

For proper operation of the memory, a memory controller and physical layer (PHY) interface needs to be included in the FPGA design. There are two recommended ways to do that, which are outlined below and differ in complexity and design flexibility.

The straightforward way is to use the Digilent-provided DDR-to-SRAM adapter module which instantiates the memory controller and uses an asynchronous SRAM bus for interfacing with user logic. This module provides backward compatibility with projects written for older Nexys-line boards featuring a CellularRAM instead of DDR2. It trades memory bandwidth for simplicity.

More advanced users or those who wish to learn more about DDR SDRAM technology may want to use the Xilinx 7-series memory interface solutions core generated by the MIG (Memory Interface Generator) Wizard. Depending on the tool used (ISE, EDK or Vivado), the MIG Wizard can generate a native FIFO-style or an AXI4 interface to connect to user logic. This workflow allows the customization of several DDR parameters optimized for the particular application. Table 3.1 below lists the MIG Wizard settings optimized for the Nexys A7.

Table 3.1 DDR2 settings for the Nexys A7.
Setting	Value
Memory type	DDR2 SDRAM
Max. clock period	3000ps (667 MT/s data rate)
Recommended clock period (for easy clock generation)	3077ps (650 MT/s data rate)
Memory part	MT47H64M16HR-25E
Data width	16
Data mask	Enabled
Chip Select pin	Enabled
Rtt (nominal) – On-die termination	50ohms
Internal Vref	Enabled
Internal termination impedance	50ohms
Although the FPGA, memory IC, and the board itself are capable of the maximum data rate of 667 MT/s, the limitations in the clock generation primitives restrict the clock frequencies that can be generated from the 100 MHz system clock. Thus, for simplicity, the next highest data rate of 650 MT/s is recommended.

The MIG Wizard will require the fixed pin-out of the memory signals to be entered and validated before generating the IP core. For your convenience, an importable UCF file is provided on the Digilent website to speed up the process.

For more details on the Xilinx memory interface solutions, refer to the 7 Series FPGAs Memory Interface Solutions User Guide (ug586) ¹.

3.2 Quad-SPI Flash
FPGA configuration files can be written to the Quad-SPI Flash, and mode settings are available to cause the FPGA to automatically read a configuration from this device at power on. An Artix-7 100T configuration file requires just less than four MiB (mebibyte) of memory, leaving about 77% of the flash device available for user data. Or, if the FPGA is getting configured from another source, the whole memory can be used for custom data.

The contents of the memory can be manipulated by issuing certain commands on the SPI bus. The implementation of this protocol is outside the scope of this document. All signals in the SPI bus except SCK are general-purpose user I/O pins after FPGA configuration. SCK is an exception because it remains a dedicated pin even after configuration. Access to this pin is provided through a special FPGA primitive called STARTUPE2.

To find out the exact memory part loaded, check the PCB revision and any stickers placed on the PCB with the flash part number printed on it. The table below lists the possible load options.

Manufacturer	P/N	PCB Revision	Package Marking
Spansion/Infineon	S25FL128SAG[M|N]FI00	≤ D w/o sticker OR ≥ D w/ sticker	FL128SAIF00
Spansion/Infineon	S25FL127SABMFx00	≥ D w/ sticker	FL127SxF00
Table 3.2.1 Flash memory part loaded

The two part numbers are highly compatible and the “s25fl128s-3.3v-qspi-x4-single” part configuration can be used in Vivado Hardware Manager for both. However, the S25FL127S is not functionally equivalent to the S25FL128S and might require changes to customer applications (embedded software) depending on the board support package in use (OS, drivers, and libraries). It might be possible to implement any changes that might be needed in such a way to keep compatibility with all load options. A non-exhaustive list of the differences between the S25FL127S and the S25FL128S:

Read SFDP command (5Ah) is supported now. The Linux kernel driver is known to probe this command and use the SFDP feature to dynamically initialize the flash device instead of relying on a static configuration if the command is available.
DDR Fast Read (0Dh, 0Eh), DDR Dual I/O Read (BDh, BEh), and Read DDR Quad I/O (EDh, EEh) not supported
Memory organization: 255 64-KB and 16 4-KB bottom hybrid erase sectors vs. 254 64-KB and 32 4-KB bottom hybrid erase sectors
Maximum clock frequency: 108 MHz vs. 133 MHz. Practically however, the system board limit is usually lower. The 50 MHz read/write maximum frequency of the Nexys A7 applies.
NOTE: Refer to the manufacturer’s data sheets² and Xilinx user guides³ for more information.

Figure 3.2.1 Nexys A7 SPI Flash Pin-out

¹Zynq-7000 SoC and 7 Series Devices Memory Interface Solutions from Xilinx

²Spansion S25FL128S Datasheet Spansion S25FL127S Datasheet

³7-Series FPGAs Configuration User Guide from Xilinx

4 Ethernet PHY
The Nexys A7 board includes an SMSC 10/100 Ethernet PHY (SMSC part number LAN8720A) paired with an RJ-45 Ethernet jack with integrated magnetics. The SMSC PHY uses the RMII interface and supports 10/100 Mb/s. Figure 4.1 illustrates the pin connections between the Artix-7 and the Ethernet PHY. At power-on reset, the PHY is set to the following defaults:

RMII mode interface
Auto-negotiation enabled, advertising all 10/100 mode capable
PHY address=00001
Two on-board LEDs (LD23 = LED2, LD24 = LED1) connected to the PHY provide link status and data activity feedback. See the PHY datasheet for details.

EDK-based designs can access the PHY using either the axi_ethernetlite (AXI EthernetLite) IP core or the axi_ethernet (Tri Mode Ethernet MAC) IP core. A mii_to_rmii core (Ethernet PHY MII to Reduced MII) needs to be inserted to convert the MAC interface from MII to RMII. Also, a 50 MHz clock needs to be generated for the mii_to_rmii core and the CLKIN pin of the external PHY. To account for skew introduced by the mii_to_rmii core, generate each clock individually, with the external PHY clock having a 45 degree phase shift relative to the mii_to_rmii Ref_Clk.

Important: It should be noted that Xilinx deprecated the Ethernet PHY MII to Reduced MII (MII2RMII) IP core after version 2019.1 of the tools and has no plan for replacing it. The current workaround is to obtain a copy of the IP provided in Vivado 2019.1 or earlier. You can include it in 2019.2 onwards by including it like you would a regular IP repository. This thread, from the Xilinx support forum, has additional information on the workaround.

ISE designs can use the IP Core Generator wizard to create an Ethernet MAC controller IP core.

Note: Refer to the LAN8720A data sheet¹ for further information.

Figure 4.1 Pin Connections between the Artix-7 and the Ethernet PHY

¹SMSC LAN8720A Datasheet from Microchip

5 Oscillators/Clocks
The Nexys A7 board includes a single 100 MHz crystal oscillator connected to pin E3 (E3 is a MRCC input on bank 35). The input clock can drive MMCMs or PLLs to generate clocks of various frequencies and with known phase relationships that may be needed throughout a design. Some rules restrict which MMCMs and PLLs may be driven by the 100 MHz input clock. For a full description of these rules and of the capabilities of the Artix-7 clocking resources, refer to the “7 Series FPGAs Clocking Resources User Guide” available from Xilinx.

Xilinx offers the Clocking Wizard IP core to help users generate the different clocks required for a specific design. This wizard will properly instantiate the needed MMCMs and PLLs based on the desired frequencies and phase relationships specified by the user. The wizard will then output an easy-to-use wrapper component around these clocking resources that can be inserted into the user’s design. The clocking wizard can be accessed from within the Project Navigator or Core Generator tools.

6 USB-UART Bridge (Serial Port)
The Nexys A7 includes an FTDI FT2232HQ USB-UART bridge (attached to connector J6) that allows you use PC applications to communicate with the board using standard Windows COM port commands. Free USB-COM port drivers, available from www.ftdichip.com under the “Virtual Com Port” or VCP heading, convert USB packets to UART/serial port data. Serial port data is exchanged with the FPGA using a two-wire serial port (TXD/RXD) and optional hardware flow control (RTS/CTS). After the drivers are installed, I/O commands can be used from the PC directed to the COM port to produce serial data traffic on the C4 and D4 FPGA pins.

Two on-board status LEDs provide visual feedback on traffic flowing through the port: the transmit LED (LD20) and the receive LED (LD19). Signal names that imply direction are from the point-of-view of the DTE (Data Terminal Equipment), in this case the PC.

The FT2232HQ is also used as the controller for the Digilent USB-JTAG circuitry, but the USB-UART and USB-JTAG functions behave entirely independent of one another. Programmers interested in using the UART functionality of the FT2232 within their design do not need to worry about the JTAG circuitry interfering with the UART data transfers, and vice-versa. The combination of these two features into a single device allows the Nexys A7 to be programmed, communicated with via UART, and powered from a computer attached with a single Micro USB cable.

The connections between the FT2232HQ and the Artix-7 are shown in Figure 6.1.

Figure 6.1 Nexys A7 FT2322HQ Connections

7 USB HID Host
The Auxiliary Function microcontroller (Microchip PIC24FJ128) provides the Nexys A7 with USB Embedded HID host capability. After power-up, the microcontroller is in configuration mode, either downloading a bitstream to the FPGA, or waiting to be programmed from other sources. Once the FPGA is programmed, the microcontroller switches to application mode, which is USB HID Host in this case. Firmware in the microcontroller can drive a mouse or a keyboard attached to the type A USB connector at J5 labeled “USB Host”. Hub support is not currently available, so only a single mouse or a single keyboard can be used. Only keyboards and mice supporting the Boot HID interface are supported. The PIC24 drives several signals into the FPGA – two are used to implement a standard PS/2 interface for communication with a mouse or keyboard, and the others are connected to the FPGA’s two-wire serial programming port, so the FPGA can be programmed from a file stored on a USB pen drive or microSD card.

Figure 7.1 Nexys A7 PIC24 Connections

7.1 HID Controller
The Auxiliary Function microcontroller hides the USB HID protocol from the FPGA and emulates an old-style PS/2 bus. The microcontroller behaves just like a PS/2 keyboard or mouse would. This means new designs can re-use existing PS/2 IP cores. Mice and keyboards that use the PS/2 protocol use a two-wire serial bus (clock and data) to communicate with a host. On the Nexys A7, the microcontroller emulates a PS/2 device while the FPGA plays the role of the host. Both the mouse and the keyboard use 11-bit words that include a start bit, data byte (LSB first), odd parity, and stop bit, but the data packets are organized differently, and the keyboard interface allows bi-directional data transfers (so the host device can illuminate state LEDs on the keyboard). Bus timings are shown in Figure 7.1.1.

Figure 7.1.1 PS/2 Device-to-Host Timing Diagram

The clock and data signals are only driven when data transfers occur; otherwise, they are held in the idle state at high-impedance (open-drain drivers). This requires that when the PS/2 signals are used in a design, internal pull-ups must be enabled in the FPGA on the data and clock pins. The clock signal is normally driven by the device, but may be held low by the host in special cases. The timings define signal requirements for mouse-to-host communications and bi-directional keyboard communications. A PS/2 interface circuit can be implemented in the FPGA to create a keyboard or mouse interface.

When a keyboard or mouse is connected to the Nexys A7, a “self-test passed” command (0xAA) is sent to the host. After this, commands may be issued to the device. Since both the keyboard and the mouse use the same PS/2 port, one can tell the type of device connected using the device ID. This ID can be read by issuing a Read ID command (0xF2). Also, a mouse sends its ID (0x00) right after the “self-test passed” command, which distinguishes it from a keyboard.

7.2 Keyboard
PS/2-style keyboards use scan codes to communicate key press data. Each key is assigned a code that is sent whenever the key is pressed. If the key is held down, the scan code will be sent repeatedly about once every 100ms. When a key is released, an F0 key-up code is sent, followed by the scan code of the released key. If a key can be shifted to produce a new character (like a capital letter), then a shift character is sent in addition to the scan code and the host must determine which ASCII character to use. Some keys, called extended keys, send an E0 ahead of the scan code (and they may send more than one scan code). When an extended key is released, an E0 F0 key-up code is sent, followed by the scan code. Scan codes for most keys are shown in Figure 7.2.1.

Figure 7.2.1 Keyboard Scan Codes

A host device can also send data to the keyboard. Table 7.2.1 shows a list of some common commands a host might send.

The keyboard can send data to the host only when both the data and clock lines are high (or idle). Because the host is the bus master, the keyboard must check to see whether the host is sending data before driving the bus. To facilitate this, the clock line is used as a “clear to send” signal. If the host drives the clock line low, the keyboard must not send any data until the clock is released. The keyboard sends data to the host in 11-bit words that contain a ‘0’ start bit, followed by 8-bits of scan code (LSB first), followed by an odd parity bit, and terminated with a ‘1’ stop bit. The keyboard generates 11 clock transitions (at 20 to 30 KHz) when the data is sent, and data is valid on the falling edge of the clock.

Table 7.2.1. Keyboard Commands
Command	Action
ED	Set Num Lock, Caps Lock, and Scroll Lock LEDs. Keyboard returns FA after receiving ED, then host sends a byte to set LED status: bit 0 sets Scroll Lock, bit 1 sets Num Lock, and bit 2 sets Caps lock. Bits 3 to 7 are ignored.
EE	Echo (test). Keyboard returns EE after receiving EE
F3	Set scan code repeat rate. Keyboard returns F3 on receiving FA, then host sends second byte to set the repeat rate.
FE	Resend. FE directs keyboard to re-send most recent scan code.
FF	Reset. Resets the keyboard.
7.3 Mouse
Once entered in stream mode and data reporting is enabled, the mouse outputs a clock and data signal when it is moved; otherwise, these signals remain at logic ‘1.’ Each time the mouse is moved, three 11-bit words are sent from the mouse to the host device, as shown in Figure 7.3.1. Each of the 11-bit words contains a ‘0’ start bit, followed by 8 bits of data (LSB first), followed by an odd parity bit, and terminated with a ‘1’ stop bit. Thus, each data transmission contains 33 bits, where bits 0, 11, and 22 are ‘0’ start bits, and bits 11, 21, and 33 are ‘1’ stop bits. The three 8-bit data fields contain movement data, as shown in Figure 7.3.1. Data is valid at the falling edge of the clock, and the clock period is 20 to 30 KHz.

The mouse assumes a relative coordinate system wherein moving the mouse to the right generates a positive number in the X field, and moving to the left generates a negative number. Likewise, moving the mouse up generates a positive number in the Y field, and moving down represents a negative number (the XS and YS bits in the status byte are the sign bits – a ‘1’ indicates a negative number). The magnitude of the X and Y numbers represent the rate of mouse movement; the larger the number, the faster the mouse is moving (the XV and YV bits in the status byte are movement overflow indicators. A ‘1’ means overflow has occurred). If the mouse moves continuously, the 33-bit transmissions are repeated every 50ms or so. The L and R fields in the status byte indicate Left and Right button presses (a ‘1’ indicates the button is being pressed).

Figure 7.3.1 Mouse Data Format

The microcontroller also supports Microsoft® IntelliMouse®-type extensions for reporting back a third axis representing the mouse wheel, as shown in Table 7.3.1.

Table 7.3.1. Microsoft IntelliMouse-Type Extensions, Commands, and Actions.
Command	Action
EA	Set stream mode. The mouse responds with “acknowledge” (0xFA) then resets its movement counters and enters stream mode.
F4	Enable data reporting. The mouse responds with “acknowledge” (0xFA) then enables data reporting and resets its movement counters. This command only affects behavior in stream mode. Once issued, mouse movement will automatically generate a data packet.
F5	Disable data reporting. The mouse responds with “acknowledge” (0xFA) then disables data reporting and resets its movement counters.
F3	Set mouse sample rate. The mouse responds with “acknowledge” (0xFA) then reads one more byte from the host. This byte is then saved as the new sample rate, and a new “acknowledge” packet is issued.
FE	Resend. FE directs mouse to re-send last packet.
FF	Reset. The mouse responds with “acknowledge” (0xFA) then enters reset mode.
8 VGA Port
The Nexys A7 board uses 14 FPGA signals to create a VGA port with 4 bits-per-color and the two standard sync signals (HS – Horizontal Sync, and VS – Vertical Sync). The color signals use resistor-divider circuits that work in conjunction with the 75-ohm termination resistance of the VGA display to create 16 signal levels each on the red, green, and blue VGA signals. This circuit, shown in Figure 8.1, produces video color signals that proceed in equal increments between 0V (fully off) and 0.7V (fully on). Using this circuit, 4096 different colors can be displayed, one for each unique 12-bit pattern. A video controller circuit must be created in the FPGA to drive the sync and color signals with the correct timing in order to produce a working display system.

Figure 8.1 Nexys A7 VGA Interface

8.1 VGA System Timing
VGA signal timings are specified, published, copyrighted, and sold by the VESA® organization (www.vesa.org). The following VGA system timing information is provided as an example of how a VGA monitor might be driven in 640 by 480 mode.

NOTE: For more precise information, or for information on other VGA frequencies, refer to documentation available at the VESA website.

CRT-based VGA displays use amplitude-modulated moving electron beams (or cathode rays) to display information on a phosphor-coated screen. LCD displays use an array of switches that can impose a voltage across a small amount of liquid crystal, thereby changing light permittivity through the crystal on a pixel-by-pixel basis. Although the following description is limited to CRT displays, LCD displays have evolved to use the same signal timings as CRT displays (so the “signals” discussion below pertains to both CRTs and LCDs). Color CRT displays use three electron beams (one for red, one for blue, and one for green) to energize the phosphor that coats the inner side of the display end of a cathode ray tube (see Figure 8.1.1).

Figure 8.1.1 Color CRT Display

Electron beams emanate from “electron guns,” which are finely-pointed heated cathodes placed in close proximity to a positively charged annular plate called a “grid.” The electrostatic force imposed by the grid pulls rays of energized electrons from the cathodes, and those rays are fed by the current that flows into the cathodes. These particle rays are initially accelerated towards the grid, but they soon fall under the influence of the much larger electrostatic force that results from the entire phosphor-coated display surface of the CRT being charged to 20kV (or more). The rays are focused to a fine beam as they pass through the center of the grids, and then they accelerate to impact on the phosphor-coated display surface. The phosphor surface glows brightly at the impact point, and it continues to glow for several hundred microseconds after the beam is removed. The larger the current fed into the cathode, the brighter the phosphor will glow.

Between the grid and the display surface, the beam passes through the neck of the CRT where two coils of wire produce orthogonal electromagnetic fields. Because cathode rays are composed of charged particles (electrons), they can be deflected by these magnetic fields. Current waveforms are passed through the coils to produce magnetic fields that interact with the cathode rays and cause them to transverse the display surface in a “raster” pattern, horizontally from left to right and vertically from top to bottom, as shown in Figure 8.1.2. As the cathode ray moves over the surface of the display, the current sent to the electron guns can be increased or decreased to change the brightness of the display at the cathode ray impact point.

Information is only displayed when the beam is moving in the “forward” direction (left to right and top to bottom), and not during the time the beam is reset back to the left or top edge of the display. Much of the potential display time is therefore lost in “blanking” periods when the beam is reset and stabilized to begin a new horizontal or vertical display pass. The size of the beams, the frequency at which the beam can be traced across the display, and the frequency at which the electron beam can be modulated determine the display resolution.



Figure 8.1.2 VGA Horizontal Synchronization

Modern VGA displays can accommodate different resolutions, and a VGA controller circuit dictates the resolution by producing timing signals to control the raster patterns. The controller must produce synchronizing pulses at 3.3V (or 5V) to set the frequency at which current flows through the deflection coils, and it must ensure that video data is applied to the electron guns at the correct time. Raster video displays define a number of “rows” that corresponds to the number of horizontal passes the cathode makes over the display area, and a number of “columns” that corresponds to an area on each row that is assigned to one “picture element,” or pixel. Typical displays use from 240 to 1200 rows and from 320 to 1600 columns. The overall size of a display and the number of rows and columns determines the size of each pixel.

Video data typically comes from a video refresh memory; with one or more bytes assigned to each pixel location (the Nexys A7 uses 12 bits per pixel). The controller must index into video memory as the beams move across the display, and retrieve and apply video data to the display at precisely the time the electron beam is moving across a given pixel.

A VGA controller circuit must generate the HS and VS timings signals and coordinate the delivery of video data based on the pixel clock. The pixel clock defines the time available to display one pixel of information. The VS signal defines the “refresh” frequency of the display, or the frequency at which all information on the display is redrawn. The minimum refresh frequency is a function of the display’s phosphor and electron beam intensity, with practical refresh frequencies falling in the 50Hz to 120Hz range. The number of lines to be displayed at a given refresh frequency defines the horizontal “retrace” frequency. For a 640-pixel by 480-row display using a 25 MHz pixel clock and 60 +/-1Hz refresh, the signal timings shown in Figure 8.1.3 can be derived. Timings for sync pulse width and front and back porch intervals (porch intervals are the pre- and post-sync pulse times during which information cannot be displayed) are based on observations taken from actual VGA displays.

Figure 8.1.3 Signal Timings for a 640-Pixel by 480-Row Display Using a 25 MHz Pixel Clock and 60 Hz Vertical Refresh

A VGA controller circuit, such as the one diagrammed in Figure 8.1.4, decodes the output of a horizontal-sync counter driven by the pixel clock to generate HS signal timings. You can use this counter to locate any pixel location on a given row. Likewise, the output of a vertical-sync counter that increments with each HS pulse can be used to generate VS signal timings, and you can use this counter to locate any given row. These two continually running counters can be used to form an address into video RAM. No time relationship between the onset of the HS pulse and the onset of the VS pulse is specified, so you can arrange the counters to easily form video RAM addresses, or to minimize decoding logic for sync pulse generation.

Figure 8.1.4 VGA Display Controller Block Diagram

9 Basic I/O
The Nexys A7 board includes two tri-color LEDs, sixteen slide switches, six push buttons, sixteen individual LEDs, and an eight-digit seven-segment display, as shown in Figure 9.1. The pushbuttons and slide switches are connected to the FPGA via series resistors to prevent damage from inadvertent short circuits (a short circuit could occur if an FPGA pin assigned to a pushbutton or slide switch was inadvertently defined as an output). The five pushbuttons arranged in a plus-sign configuration are “momentary” switches that normally generate a low output when they are at rest, and a high output only when they are pressed. The red pushbutton labeled “CPU RESET,” on the other hand, generates a high output when at rest and a low output when pressed. The CPU RESET button is intended to be used in EDK designs to reset the processor, but you can also use it as a general purpose pushbutton. Slide switches generate constant high or low inputs depending on their position.

Figure 9.1 General Purpose I/O Devices on the Nexys A7

The sixteen individual high-efficiency LEDs are anode-connected to the FPGA via 330-ohm resistors, so they will turn on when a logic high voltage is applied to their respective I/O pin. Additional LEDs that are not user-accessible indicate power-on, FPGA programming status, and USB and Ethernet port status.

9.1 Seven-Segment Display
The Nexys A7 board contains two four-digit common anode seven-segment LED displays, configured to behave like a single eight-digit display. Each of the eight digits is composed of seven segments arranged in a “figure 8” pattern, with an LED embedded in each segment. Segment LEDs can be individually illuminated, so any one of 128 patterns can be displayed on a digit by illuminating certain LED segments and leaving the others dark, as shown in Figure 9.1.1. Of these 128 possible patterns, the ten corresponding to the decimal digits are the most useful.

Figure 9.1.1 An Un-illuminated Seven-Segment Display and Nine Illumination Patterns Corresponding to Decimal Digits

The anodes of the seven LEDs forming each digit are tied together into one “common anode” circuit node, but the LED cathodes remain separate, as shown in Fig 18. The common anode signals are available as eight “digit enable” input signals to the 8-digit display. The cathodes of similar segments on all four displays are connected into seven circuit nodes labeled CA through CG. For example, the eight “D” cathodes from the eight digits are grouped together into a single circuit node called “CD.” These seven cathode signals are available as inputs to the 8-digit display. This signal connection scheme creates a multiplexed display, where the cathode signals are common to all digits but they can only illuminate the segments of the digit whose corresponding anode signal is asserted.

To illuminate a segment, the anode should be driven high while the cathode is driven low. However, since the Nexys A7 uses transistors to drive enough current into the common anode point, the anode enables are inverted. Therefore, both the AN0..7 and the CA..G/DP signals are driven low when active.

Figure 9.1.2 Common Anode Circuit Node

A scanning display controller circuit can be used to show an eight-digit number on this display. This circuit drives the anode signals and corresponding cathode patterns of each digit in a repeating, continuous succession at an update rate that is faster than the human eye can detect. Each digit is illuminated just one-eighth of the time, but because the eye cannot perceive the darkening of a digit before it is illuminated again, the digit appears continuously illuminated. If the update, or “refresh”, rate is slowed to around 45Hz, a flicker can be noticed in the display.

For each of the four digits to appear bright and continuously illuminated, all eight digits should be driven once every 1 to 16ms, for a refresh frequency of about 1 KHz to 60Hz. For example, in a 62.5Hz refresh scheme, the entire display would be refreshed once every 16ms, and each digit would be illuminated for 1/8 of the refresh cycle, or 2ms. The controller must drive low the cathodes with the correct pattern when the corresponding anode signal is driven high. To illustrate the process, if AN0 is asserted while CB and CC are asserted, then a “1” will be displayed in digit position 1. Then, if AN1 is asserted while CA, CB, and CC are asserted, a “7” will be displayed in digit position 2. If AN0, CB, and CC are driven for 4ms, and then AN1, CA, CB, and CC are driven for 4ms in an endless succession, the display will show “71” in the first two digits. An example timing diagram for a four-digit controller is shown in Figure 9.1.3.

Figure 9.1.3 Four Digit Scanning Display Controller Timing Diagram

9.2 Tri-Color LED
The Nexys A7 board contains two tri-color LEDs. Each tri-color LED has three input signals that drive the cathodes of three smaller internal LEDs: one red, one blue, and one green. Driving the signal corresponding to one of these colors high will illuminate the internal LED. The input signals are driven by the FPGA through a transistor, which inverts the signals. Therefore, to light up the tri-color LED, the corresponding signals need to be driven high. The tri-color LED will emit a color dependent on the combination of internal LEDs that are currently being illuminated. For example, if the red and blue signals are driven high, and green is driven low, the tri-color LED will emit a purple color.

Note: Digilent strongly recommends the use of pulse-width modulation (PWM) when driving the tri-color LEDs (for information on PWM, see section 15.1 Pulse Density Modulation (PDM)). Driving any of the inputs to a steady logic ‘1’ will result in the LED being illuminated at an uncomfortably bright level. You can avoid this by ensuring that none of the tri-color signals are driven with more than a 50% duty cycle. Using PWM also greatly expands the potential color palette of the tri-color led. Individually adjusting the duty cycle of each color between 50% and 0% causes the different colors to be illuminated at different intensities, allowing virtually any color to be displayed.

10 Pmod Ports
The Pmod ports are arranged in a 2×6 right-angle, and are 100-mil female connectors that mate with standard 2×6 pin headers. Each 12-pin Pmod port provides two 3.3V VCC signals (pins 6 and 12), two Ground signals (pins 5 and 11), and eight logic signals, as shown in Figure 10.1. The VCC and Ground pins can deliver up to 1A of current. Pmod data signals are not matched pairs, and they are routed using best-available tracks without impedance control or delay matching. Pin assignments for the Pmod I/O connected to the FPGA are shown in Table 10.1.

Warning: Since the Pmod pins are connected to Artix-7 FPGA pins using a 3.3V logic standard, care should be taken not to drive these pins over 3.4V.

Figure 10.1 Pmod Connectors; Front View, as Loaded on PCB

Table 10.1. Nexys A7 Pmod pin assignments.
Pmod JA	Pmod JB	Pmod JC	Pmod JD	Pmod XADC
JA1: C17	JB1: D14	JC1: K1	JD1: H4	JXADC1: A13 (AD3P)
JA2: D18	JB2: F16	JC2: F6	JD2: H1	JXADC2: A15 (AD10P)
JA3: E18	JB3: G16	JC3: J2	JD3: G1	JXADC3: B16 (AD2P)
JA4: G17	JB4: H14	JC4: G6	JD4: G3	JXADC4: B18 (AD11P)
JA7: D17	JB7: E16	JC7: E7	JD7: H2	JXADC7: A14 (AD3N)
JA8: E17	JB8: F13	JC8: J3	JD8: G4	JXADC8: A16 (AD10N)
JA9: F18	JB9: G13	JC9: J4	JD9: G2	JXADC9: B17 (AD2N)
JA10: G18	JB10: H16	JC10: E6	JD10: F3	JXADC10: A18 (AD11N)
Digilent produces a large collection of Pmod accessory boards that can attach to the Pmod expansion connectors to add ready-made functions like A/D’s, D/A’s, motor drivers, sensors, as well as other functions. See the Pmod page of Digilent Reference for more information.

10.1 Dual Analog/Digital Pmod
The on-board Pmod expansion connector labeled “JXADC” is wired to the auxiliary analog input pins of the FPGA. Depending on the configuration, this connector can be used to input differential analog signals to the analog-to-digital converter inside of the Artix-7 (XADC). Any or all pairs in the connector can be configured either as analog input or digital input-output.

The Dual Analog/Digital Pmod on the Nexys A7 differs from the rest in the routing of its traces. The eight data signals are grouped into four pairs, with the pairs routed closely coupled for better analog noise immunity. Furthermore, each pair has a partially loaded anti-alias filter laid out on the PCB. The filter does not have capacitors C60-C63. In designs where such filters are desired, the capacitors can be manually loaded by the user.

NOTE: The coupled routing and the anti-alias filters might limit the data speeds when used for digital signals.

The XADC core within the Artix-7 is a dual channel 12-bit analog-to-digital converter capable of operating at 1 MSPS. Either channel can be driven by any of the auxiliary analog input pairs connected to the JXADC header. The XADC core is controlled and accessed from a user design via the Dynamic Reconfiguration Port (DRP). The DRP also provides access to voltage monitors that are present on each of the FPGA’s power rails, and a temperature sensor that is internal to the FPGA. For more information on using the XADC core, refer to the Xilinx document titled “7 Series FPGAs and Zynq-7000 All Programmable SoC XADC Dual 12-Bit 1 MSPS Analog-to-Digital Converter.”

11 MicroSD Slot
The Nexys A7 provides a microSD slot for both FPGA configuration and user access. The on-board Auxiliary Function microcontroller shares the SD card bus with the FPGA. Before the FPGA is configured the microcontroller must have access to the SD card via SPI. Once a bit file is downloaded to the FPGA (from any source), the microcontroller power cycles the SD slot and relinquishes control of the bus. This enables any SD card in the slot to reset its internal state machines and boot up in SD native bus mode. All of the SD pins on the FPGA are wired to support full SD speeds in native interface mode, as shown in Figure 11.1. The SPI is also available, if needed. Once control over the SD bus is passed from the microcontroller to the FPGA, the SD_RESET signal needs to be actively driven low by the FPGA to power the microSD card slot. For information on implementing an SD card controller, refer to the SD card specification available at www.sdcard.org.

Figure 11.1 Artix-7 microSD Card Connector Interface (PIC24 Connections not Shown)

12 Temperature Sensor
The Nexys A7 includes an Analog Device ADT7420 temperature sensor. The sensor provides up to 16-bit resolution with a typical accuracy better than 0.25 degrees Celsius. The interface between the temperature sensor and FPGA is shown in Figure 12.1.

Figure 12.1 Temperature Sensor Interface

12.1 I²C Interface
The ADT7420 chip acts as a slave device using the industry standard I²C communication scheme. To communicate with ADT7420 chip, the I²C master must specify a slave address (0x4B) and a flag indicating whether the communication is a read (1) or a write (0). Once specifications are made for communication, a data transfer takes place. For ADT7420, the data transfer should consist of the address of the desired device register followed by the data to be written to the specified register. To read from a register, the master must write the desired register address to the ADT7420, then send an I²C restart condition, and send a new read request to the ADT7420. If the master does not generate a restart condition prior to attempting the read, the value written to the address register will be reset to 0x00. As some registers store 16-bit values as 8-bit register pairs, the ADT7420 will automatically increment the address register of the device when accessing certain registers, such as the temperature registers and the threshold registers. This allows for the master to use a single read or write request to access both the low and high bytes of these registers. A complete listing of registers and their behavior can be found in the ADT7420 datasheet available on the Analog Devices website.

12.2 Open Drain Outputs
The ADT7420 provides two open drain output signals to indicate when pre-set temperature thresholds are reached. If the temperature leaves a range defined by registers TLOW (0x06:0x07) and THIGH (0x04:0x05), the INT pin can be driven low or high based upon the configuration of the device. Similarly, the CT pin can be driven low or high if the temperature exceeds a critical threshold defined in TCRIT (0x08:0x09). Both of these pins need internal FPGA pull-ups when used.

For details on the electrical specifications and configuration of the INT and CT pins, refer to the ADT7420 datasheet

12.3 Quick Start Operation
When the ADT7420 is powered up, it is in a mode that can be used as a simple temperature sensor without any initial configuration. By default, the device address register points to the temperature MSB register, so a two byte read without specifying a register will read the value of the temperature register from the device. The first byte read back will be the most significant byte (MSB) of the temperature data, and the second will be the least significant byte (LSB) of the data. These two bytes form a two’s complement 16-bit integer. If the result is shifted to the right three bits and multiplied by 0.0625, the resulting signed floating point value will be a temperature reading in degrees Celsius.

For information on reading and writing to the other registers of the device, as well as notes on the accuracy of the temperature measurements, refer to the ADT7420 datasheet.

13 Accelerometer
The Nexys A7 includes an Analog Device ADXL362 accelerometer. The ADXL362 is a 3-axis MEMS accelerometer that consumes less than 2μA at a 100Hz output data rate and 270nA when in motion triggered wake-up mode. Unlike accelerometers that use power duty cycling to achieve low power consumption, the ADXL362 does not alias input signals by under-sampling; it samples the full bandwidth of the sensor at all data rates. The ADXL362 always provides 12-bit output resolution; 8-bit formatted data is also provided for more efficient single-byte transfers when a lower resolution is sufficient. Measurement ranges of ±2 g, ±4 g, and ±8 g are available with a resolution of 1 mg/LSB on the ±2 g range. The FPGA can talk with the ADXL362 via SPI interface. While the ADXL362 is in Measurement Mode, it continuously measures and stores acceleration data in the X-data, Y-data, and Z-data registers. The interface between the FPGA and accelerometer can be seen in Figure 13.1.

Figure 13.1 Accelerometer Interface

13.1 SPI Interface
The ADXL362 acts as a slave device using an SPI communication scheme. The recommended SPI clock frequency ranges from 1 MHz to 5 MHz. The SPI operates in SPI mode 0 with CPOL = 0 and CPHA = 0. All communications with the device must specify a register address and a flag that indicate whether the communication is a read or a write. Actual data transfer always follows the register address and communication flag. Device configuration can be performed by writing to the control registers within the accelerometer. Access accelerometer data by reading the device registers.

For a full list of registers, their functionality, and communication specifications, refer to the ADXL362 datasheet¹.

13.2 Interrupts
Several of the built-in functions of the ADXL362 can trigger interrupts that alert the host processor of certain status conditions. Interrupts can be mapped to either (or both) of two interrupt pins (INT1, INT2). Both of these pins require internal FPGA pull-ups when used. For more details about the interrupts, see the ADXL362 datasheet.

¹ADXL362 Product Page from Analog Devices

14 Microphone
The Nexys A7 board includes an omnidirectional MEMS microphone. The microphone uses an Analog Device ADMP421 chip which has a high signal to noise ratio (SNR) of 61dBA and high sensitivity of -26 dBFS. It also has a flat frequency response ranging from 100Hz to 15 kHz. The digitized audio is output in the pulse density modulated (PDM) format. The component architecture is shown in Figure 14.1.

Figure 14.1 Microphone Block Diagram

14.1 Pulse Density Modulation (PDM)
PDM data connections are becoming more and more popular in portable audio applications, such as cellphones and tablets. With PDM, two channels can be transmitted with only two wires. The frequency of a PDM signal usually falls in the range of 1 MHz to 3 MHz. In a PDM bitstream, a 1 corresponds to a positive pulse and a 0 corresponds to a negative pulse. A run consisting of all ‘1’s would correspond to the maximum positive value and a run of ‘0’s would correspond to the minimum amplitude value. Figure 14.1.1 shows how a sine wave is represented in PDM signal.

Figure 14.1.1 PDM Representation of a Sine Wave

A PDM signal is generated from an analog signal through a process called delta-sigma modulation. A simple idealized circuit of delta-sigma modulator is shown in Figure 14.1.2.

Figure 14.1.2 Simple Delta-Sigma Modulator Circuit

Table 14.1.2. Sigma Delta Modulator with a 0.4Vdd input.
Sum	Integrator Out	Flip-flop Output
0.4-0=0.4	0+0.4=0.4	0
0.4-0=0.4	0.4+0.4=0.8	1
0.4-1=-0.6	0.8-0.6=0.2	0
0.4-0=0.4	0.2+0.4=0.6	1
0.4-1=-0.6	0.6-0.6=0	0
0.4-0=0.4	0+0.4=0.4	0
0.4-0=0.4	0.4+0.4=0.8	1
0.4-1=-0.6	0.8-0.6=0.2	0
To keep things simple, assume that the analog input and digital output have the same voltage range 0~Vdd. The input of the flip-flop acts like a comparator (any signal above Vdd/2 is considered as ‘1’ and any input bellow Vdd/2 is considered ‘0’). The input of the integral circuit is the difference of the input analog signal and the PDM signal of the previous clock cycle. The integral circuit then integrates both of these inputs, and the output of the integral circuit is sampled by a D-Flip-flop. Table 14.1.2 shows the function of the delta-sigma modulator with an input of 0.4Vdd.

Note that the average of the flip-flop output equals the value of the input analog signal. So in order to get the value of analog input, all that is needed is a counter that counts the ‘1’s for a certain period of time.

14.2 Microphone Digital Interface Timing
The clock input of the microphone can range from 1 MHz to 3.3 MHz based on the sampling rate and data precision requirement of the applications. The L/R Select signal must be set to a valid level, depending on which edge of the clock the data bit will be read. A low level on L/RSEL makes data available on the rising edge of the clock, while a high level corresponds to the falling edge of the clock, as shown in Figure 14.2.1.

Figure 14.2.1 PDM Timing Diagram

The typical value of the clock frequency is 2.4 MHz. Assuming that the application requires 7-bit precision and 24 KHz, there can be two counters that count 128 samples at 12 KHz, as shown in Figure 14.2.2.

Figure 14.2.2 Sampling PDM with Two Counters

15 Mono Audio Output
The on-board audio jack (J8) is driven by a Sallen-Key Butterworth Low-pass 4th Order Filter that provides mono audio output. The circuit of the low-pass filter is shown in Figure 15.1. The input of the filter (AUD_PWM) is connected to the FPGA pin A11. A digital input will typically be a pulse-width modulated (PWM) or pulse density modulated (PDM) open-drain signal produced by the FPGA. The signal needs to be driven low for logic ‘0’ and left in high-impedance for logic ‘1’. An on-board pull-up resistor to a clean analog 3.3V rail will establish the proper voltage for logic ‘1’. The low-pass filter on the input will act as a reconstruction filter to convert the pulse-width modulated digital signal into an analog voltage on the audio jack output.

Figure 15.1 Sallen-Key Butterworth Low-Pass 4th Order Filter

The frequency response of SK Butterworth Low-Pass Filter is shown in Figure 15.2. The AC analysis of the circuit is done using NI Multisim 12.0.

Figure 15.2 SK Butterworth Low-Pass Filter Frequency Response

15.1 Pulse-Width Modulation
A pulse-width modulated (PWM) signal is a chain of pulses at some fixed frequency, with each pulse potentially having a different width. This digital signal can be passed through a simple low-pass filter that integrates the digital waveform to produce an analog voltage proportional to the average pulse-width over some interval (the interval is determined by the 3dB cut-off frequency of the low-pass filter and the pulse frequency). For example, if the pulses are high for an average of 10% of the available pulse period, then an integrator will produce an analog value that is 10% of the Vdd voltage. Figure 15.1.1 shows a waveform represented as a PWM signal.

Figure 15.1.1 Simple Waveform Represented as PWM

The PWM signal must be integrated to define an analog voltage. The low-pass filter 3dB frequency should be an order of magnitude lower than the PWM frequency, so that signal energy at the PWM frequency is filtered from the signal. For example, if an audio signal must contain up to 5 KHz of frequency information, then the PWM frequency should be at least 50 KHz (and preferably even higher). In general, in terms of analog signal fidelity, the higher the PWM frequency, the better. Figure 15.1.2 shows a representation of a PWM integrator producing an output voltage by integrating the pulse train. Note the steady-state filter output signal amplitude ratio to Vdd is the same as the pulse-width duty cycle (duty cycle is defined as pulse-high time divided by pulse-window time).

图 15.1.2 PWM 积分器通过积分脉冲序列产生输出电压的表示

16 内置自检
在制造过程中，演示配置被加载到 Nexys A7 板上的 Quad-SPI 闪存器件中。此设计的源代码和预构建 bitstream 可从 Digilent 网站下载。如果 flash 中存在演示配置，并且 Nexys A7 板在 SPI 模式下上电，则演示项目将允许进行基本硬件验证。以下是此演示如何驱动不同板载组件的概述：

当相应的用户开关置于 on 位置时，用户 LED 会亮起。
三色 LED 由一些用户按钮控制。按 BTNL、BTNC 或 BTNR 会使它们分别亮起红色、绿色或蓝色。按 BTND 会使它们开始循环显示多种颜色。反复按 BTND 将打开或关闭两个 LED。
按 BTNU 将触发板载 PDM 麦克风的 5 秒录音。然后，此录音会立即在单声道音频输出端口上播放。录制和播放的状态显示在用户 LED 上。录音保存在 DDR2 内存中。
VGA 端口显示来自板载麦克风、温度传感器、加速度计、RGB LED 和 USB 鼠标的反馈。
将鼠标连接到 USB-HID 鼠标端口将允许控制 VGA 显示器上的指针。仅支持与 Boot Mouse HID 接口兼容的鼠标。
七段显示器将显示一个移动的蛇形图案。
所有 Nexys A7 板在制造过程中都经过 100% 测试。如果 Nexys A7 板上的任何设备未通过测试或没有正确响应，则很可能在运输或使用过程中发生了损坏。典型的损坏包括受压的焊点以及开关和按钮中的污染物，从而导致间歇性故障。受压焊点可以通过重新加热和回流焊料来修复，污染物可以使用现成的电子产品清洁产品进行清洁。如果主板在保修期内未通过测试，我们将免费更换。请联系 Digilent 了解更多详情。

安装 Vivado、Vitis 和 Digilent 板文件
介绍
本指南将介绍安装和配置 Vivado 和 Vitis 开发环境的过程。这些应用程序用于开发在 Digilent FPGA 开发板上运行的项目。除了安装之外，还将安装 Digilent 的板级支持文件，这些文件用于显著加快创建新项目的过程。此外，电路板文件还使向项目添加各种外设（如 DDR 存储器）以及 Zynq 处理器（用于 Zynq 电路板）变得更加容易。

重要提示：Digilent 提供的示例项目针对特定版本的 Vivado 和 Vitis 或 Xilinx SDK，可能很难或不可能将它们移植到其他版本。选择版本时要小心。如果您想安装 Vivado 版本 2019.1 或更早版本，并使用 Xilinx SDK 而不是 Vitis，请查看安装 Vivado、Xilinx SDK 和 Digilent 板文件。

先决条件
60+ GB 的可用硬盘空间。实际数量因安装的特定工具和设备支持而异。
指导
安装 Vivado 和 Vitis（Xilinx 统一安装程序）
这Xilinx Unified Installer 可用于安装各种不同的 Xilinx 工具，这些工具可用于为您的 FPGA 开发板设计应用。

在新选项卡中打开 Xilinx 的 Downloads 页面。找到标题为 “Vivado ML Edition - <Version #>” 的页面部分。

请务必检查您正在安装的工具的版本，因为您的主板可用的支持级别可能因所选版本而异。

选择适用于相应操作系统的“Self Extracting Web Installer”下载。按照提示登录或创建 Xilinx 网站帐户。登录后，浏览器将下载所选安装程序。

要启动安装程序，请选择相应操作系统的下拉列表：

窗户
Linux的
第 1 节中的其余步骤对于 Windows 和 Linux 都是相同的。

在 Welcome （欢迎） 屏幕上，确保正在使用的计算机的操作系统列在兼容性列表中，然后单击 Next （下一步）。



使用您的 Xilinx 网站登录凭证进行用户认证。选择 Download and Install Now 选项，然后单击 Next。



在 “Select Product to Install” 屏幕上，显示了几个选项。选择 Vitis 选项以安装 Vitis 统一软件平台和 Vivado Design Suite。选择 Vivado 不会为您提供所有必需的工具。



此屏幕提供了用于自定义安装的更详细选项。对于基本安装，这些选项中的大多数不需要更改，但可以删除不必要的功能以减少安装对文件系统的占用空间 - 例如，大多数用户不需要他们的 Vivado 安装来支持 Ultrascale devices。初学者在这里需要注意的重要选项在下面的列表中进行了描述。查看选择，然后单击 Next。

设计工具：
葡萄属：
安装一个开发环境，用于编写面向 Xilinx FPGA 上的处理器的软件。
Vivado 设计套件：
安装开发环境，用于创建针对 Xilinx FPGA 上的 FPGA 架构的硬件设计。
文档导航：
安装导航工具，以快速查找合适的 Xilinx IP 文档和示例。
设备：
允许定制安装后可设计的 Xilinx FPGA 部件集。取消选择其中一些选项可以大大减小安装的大小。确保您的安装将支持 FPGA 板上的设备！
安装选项：
安装电缆驱动程序：
安装适当的驱动程序，以便对连接的 FPGA 进行编程。如果之前没有安装 Vivado，请务必检查一下！
获取或管理许可证密钥：
安装完成后启动 Xilinx 许可证管理器。许多新用户不需要管理许可证。
注： 安装完成后，可以通过转到 Vivado 工具栏中的 Help → Add Design Tools or Devices 对安装进行更改。



阅读并接受所有许可协议，然后单击 Next（下一步）。



选择目标目录，然后单击 Next。



Review the “Installation Summary”, then click Install.



The installation process may take quite a while. Find something else to work on until it completes.

I recommend making nachos. You definitely have time for it.

Install Cable Drivers (Linux Only)
The Xilinx Unified Installer does not install the USB drivers required to recognize an FPGA board on a Linux system. As such, it must be done manually after the tools have been installed.

In order to install Linux cable drivers, first navigate to the following directory in a console window:

<Vivado Install>/data/xicom/cable_drivers/lin64/install_script/install_drivers/
By default, the “<Vivado Install>” directory is the “/opt/Xilinx/Vivado/<version>/” directory, where <version> represents the Vivado version number.

From within this directory, run the “./install_drivers” command as a super-user. Once this command completes successfully, the required drivers will be installed.

NOTE: Some older versions of Vivado may require that the install_drivers command be extracted from a TAR file before use.



In order to use the USB drivers with a serial terminal, each user that will be using serial terminals must be added to the dialout group. Serial terminals can be very useful for debugging FPGA designs that implement a USB-UART controller.

The current user can be added to the dialout group with the following command:

sudo adduser $USER dialout
Note that the above only adds the current user. In order to add a different user (including a user without super-user permissions), use the following command instead, with “<username>” replaced with the name of the user to be added.

adduser <username> dialout


Install Digilent's Board Files
Digilent provides board files for each FPGA development board. These files make it easy to select the correct part when creating a new project and allow for automated configuration of several complicated components (including the Zynq Processing System and Memory Interface Generator) used in many designs.

The board files will be copied into your version of Vivado's installation directory. At the end of this section, an alternate method of installation is presented, which users familiar with git may find more convenient.

Download the most recent Master Branch ZIP Archive of Digilent's vivado-boards Github repository and extract it.



Open the folder extracted from the archive and navigate to its folder. You will be copying all of this folder's subfolders. new/board_files

Note: When installing Vivado versions 2014.4 or older, use the files found in 'old/board_files' instead.



Open the folder that Vivado was installed into - or by default. Under this folder, navigate to its directory. If this folder doesn't exist, create it. C:/Xilinx/Vivado/opt/Xilinx/Vivado<version>/data/boards/board_files

Copy all of the folders found in vivado-boards' folder, then paste them into this folder. new/board_files



Appendix: Installing the Board Files via the "vivado-boards" Github Repository
Note: The remaining steps of this guide present how to launch Vivado and Vitis once they are installed on your system.

Launch Vivado
Select the dropdown corresponding to your operating system, below.

Windows
Linux
Launch Vitis
Select the dropdown corresponding to your operating system, below.

Windows
Linux
Note: Regardless of OS, if Vivado is open, Vitis can also be launched through the Tools → Launch Vitis toolbar option.

启动 Vitis 后，将出现一个对话框，必须在其中选择工作区。工作区是正在开发的应用程序的所有项目和文件所在的目录。如果选择了当前不存在的文件夹，则将创建该文件夹。选择一个工作区，然后单击 Launch 以完成 Vitis 的启动。



流导航器
Flow Navigator 是 Vivado 主窗口需要了解的最重要的窗格。这是用户在 Vivado 中的不同工具之间导航的方式。

Navigator 分为七个部分：

项目管理人
访问工程设置，添加新的源文件，查看有用的 RTL 代码片段，并将工具中包含的硬件设计 （IP） 的组件添加到您自己的设计中。
IP 集成商
通过将 IP 块连接在一起，通过使用块设计创建硬件设计。
模拟
完全在软件中调试和验证硬件设计，而无需将其部署到硬件。
RTL 分析
通过查看设计描述的电路，了解这些工具如何解释设计。
合成
修改 Synthesis 设置并查看 post-synthesis 报告 - 确定设计是否满足时序，以及它将使用多少芯片资源。
实现
Modify Implementation settings and view post-implementation reports - 确定设计是否满足时序，以及它将使用多少芯片资源。
编程和调试
访问 bitstream generation 和 Hardware Manager 的设置。用于构建设计并将其部署到电路板。
